# Instuctions

These instructions are intended to guide the user in setting up dev tools to allow them to contribute to this project's repo.

Assuming a local directory has been created and a remote has been established at https://github.com/JTHall94/Project-1.git :

1. In the terminal, in the Project-1 directory, type: npm init

This will initialize npm, a package manager, and will create a package.json file within the directory. This is the foundational step that will allow you to install further software.

2. In the same directory, type npm --save-dev install sass

This will install sass, with dev dependencies (this ensures that users will not have to have sass when visiting the page, only if they are contributing to it). sass will allow you to make quick edits to the css of the project through shorthand that is viewable at https://sass-lang.com/documentation/file.SASS_REFERENCE.html.

3. In index.html, double check to make sure that output.css is the stylesheet that is linked within the <head></head> tags.

Output.css will be automatically generated by sass after it compiles the code in main.scss (sass's input file).

If you are going to make further html documents, make sure that you link them to output.CSS

4. In the terminal, type npm --save-dev install bootstrap

This will install boostrap through the terminal, adding its node modules to the project. This allows the user to import bootstrap into the main.scss input file for sass (it should already be in there). This means that you can use bootstrap in the project, in both the html files and the sass input files.

5. In the terminal, type npm --save-dev install browser-sync

This will install browser-sync which will make editing the css of the project even easier.


6. In another terminal window, set sass to compile changes in its input file into an output file. In the case of this project, the input file is main.scss and the output is output.css.

The way we do this is through a --watch command:

./node_modules/.bin/sass --watch main.scss output.css

This should set sass to watch the main.scss for changes and then compile them into the output file.

7. To enable browser-sync to watch for changes to the output.css file, we'll use a different command:

./node_modules/.bin/browser-sync --server-files output.CSS

This will update your browser in realtime to show changes to output.css as they happen on the page!

#You should now be ready to contribute!!
